1. The position function of a particle is given by s(t) = 4√t −t on the interval 1 ≤t ≤16, where position is in meters and time is in seconds. (a) Determine the particle’s velocity function v(t). Include the correct unit of measurement. (b) Determine the total distance traveled by the particle on the interval 1 ≤t ≤16. Include the correct unit of measurement.

2. Verify that all hypotheses of the Mean Value Theorem are satisfied for the given position function s(t) = 4√t −t on the interval 1 ≤t ≤16. Use the Mean Value Theorem to determine all time values c on the interval 1 ≤t ≤16, if any, for which the instantaneous velocity of the particle equals the average velocity of the particle on that interval.

3. Let v represent a person’s walking speed, expressed in miles per hour, and let p represent the corresponding walking pace, expressed in minutes per mile. The pace can be expressed as the following function of speed: p(v) = 60/v , v > 0 (a) Find the linearization L(v) that approximates p(v) near v = 3. (b) Use your linearization from part (a) to estimate the walking pace of a person moving at 2 miles per hour. You must use linearization to earn credit.

4. Consider the function f(x) = sin x + cos2 x on the interval [0, 2π/3]. (a) Identify all critical numbers of f on the specified interval. (b) Use the Closed Interval Method to find the absolute maximum and minimum values of f on the specified interval.

5. Find an equation of each tangent line, if any, to the curve 2x3 + 2y2 = 5xy at x = 1.

6. Two bowls of identical size are both hemispheres of radius 2. When such a bowl contains water having a depth of y ft, the corresponding volume of water in the bowl is given by the following function: V = πy2(2 −y/3) , 0 ≤y ≤2 (a) Suppose bowl A is being filled at a constant rate of 8π/9 cubic ft per minute. How fast is the depth of the water increasing when the water is 1 ft deep? (b) Suppose bowl B is being filled in such a way that its water depth is increasing at a constant rate of 1/3 ft per minute. How fast is the volume of the water increasing when the water is 1 ft deep?

7. Determine g′(x) for the function g(x) = √3x + 1 by using the definition of derivative. You must obtain g′ by evaluating an appropriate limit to earn credit.

8. Consider the function h(x) = sin x/x(x −π/2). (a) Find the (x, y) coordinates of every removable discontinuity of h(x), if any. Support your answer by evaluating the appropriate limit(s). (b) Find the equation of every vertical asymptote of y = h(x), if any. Support your answer by evaluating the appropriate limit(s).