The math questions are as follows:

1. (a) Consider two mathematicians having an argument about some function J(z) deﬁned on the interval. The ﬁrst mathematician contends, “if ∫J(z)dz exists over I, then J(z) must be differentiable over I”. The second counters, “no—if J′(z) exists over I, then J(z) must be integrable over I”. Decide which of these two mathematicians is correct and explain why the other one is incorrect.
   
   (b) The continuous function f(x) satisﬁes the following relation: f(x) = f(−x). Speculate upon the condition(s) necessary for its inverse, f−1(x), to exist, and explain.
   
   (c) Suppose that Ω(s) is a continuous function deﬁned for all real numbers. Ω(s) experiences various intervals of increasing and decreasing behavior; however, the antiderivative of Ω(s) is not expressible using any elementary functions. Describe a procedure by which ∫Ω(s)ds could be most accurately approximated without knowing the true antiderivative of Ω(s).

2. Sketch a time series plot which illustrates the evolution of G(t) consistent with these statements — be sure to label known values, limits, and regions of interest.

3. Determine the following limits:
   
   (a) lim r→∞ e−r cos(r).
   
   (b) lim φ→0 {sin²(φ)/ φ²}.

4. The internal mass distribution of a new architectural strut is described by the linear mass density function, λ(x) = λ0(1 − cos(2x²)). Evaluate this integral to ﬁnd XCoM: 
   
   XCoM = 1/M ∫L 0 xλ(x)dx.

5. Answer the following concerning the natural logarithm and exponential function:
   
   (a) Consider the function, ψ(x) = (x² - 2x + 1) sinh(x)/ √(1 - x⁴). Find ψ′(x).
   
   (b) Radioactive 26Al, used to measure the age of space debris, decays into stable 26Mg with a half life of about 700,000 years. A meteorite is recovered from a recent fall which contains 0 µg of 26Al and 0 µg of 26Mg. Assuming all the measured 26Mg came from the decay of 26Al, how old is this meteorite?

6. A small botanical preserve is being established to promote the rehabilitation of an endangered species of tree.
   
   (a) Determine an expression for the area of the botanical preserve.
   
   (b) What are the dimensions of the fence which enclose the largest possible area?
   
   (c) Each sapling will need at least 300 m² of ground space to effectively grow a stable root system. What is the maximum number of trees that could be planted in this optimized area?